# Estimation anf Localisation
## Question 1:
A point cloud is a collection of data points in space, representing 3D geometry about an environment. Each point cloud data consists of 3 values representing spatial coordinates. It can also have additional attributes like intensity and color. This data needs to be preprocessed, to reduce noise (due to the environment, here the tree might be having some random motions of leaves, and weather conditions etc) and to remove outliers. Also coordinate transformation is necessary with respect to the sensor, because sometimes, the scanned data points will seem to drift in a particular direction. So many algorithms like graph-based estimation, EKF filter based, and iterative closest point algorithms are used.
Lidar_Scan points can be processed to point cloud type data, using python libraries like open3d, which include built-in features to convert these points.

## Question 2:
While measuring data using lidar, we’ll make sure that the controlled environment is void of heavy fog and rain, which might cause the lasers to diffract giving poor quality results. Also highly reflective surfaces, almost reflects the laser beam as it is due to which the incoming beam is highly concentrated. This will lead to poor quality signals, as the concentrated beam is highly susceptible to attenuation. Also since it is spread out less, the average signal density is very low and sensors should be in a precise position to sense the incoming reflected laser beam. This beam is also more susceptible to interference from other obstacles, and when it reaches the sensor it creates ghost points, since lidar works on the principle of time of flight (ToF) measurement.

## Question 3:
File is in the repository. Couldnt complete desireably, but have tried implementing it.

## Question 4:
Kalman filter is a widely used estimation algorithm used to estimate the hidden states of the system precisely. Let's say a self-driving car is using position determining sensors like IMUs, Odometric sensors and GPS aiming to precisely determine the position and velocity of a vehicle. These sensors won't directly measure the position and velocity, but can measure other data like the relativistic position, orientation, and distance from the satellite etc. Using this information we are determining the position and velocity, therefore here the position and velocity turns out to be a hidden function or a state function, which cannot be determined directly, but indirectly. In the case of a self-driving car it becomes important to estimate the velocity beforehand. The data received from the sensors are run through a mathematical model to estimate the desired unit, but the data received are not always accurate because of dynamic motion (which gives rise to noise and drifts) and the mathematical model used in subject to processing errors which are detrimental. Therefore these measurements take the form of a gaussian which is a mean and covariance probability distribution function. The basic function of the kalman filter is to give the most precise estimate. It compares the estimated unit (x_hat) and the measured unit (x), the error between them (x_hat - x) is then fed to a feedback mechanism which is multiplied by the gain constant to adjust the estimated measurement. This would ensure that the estimated and actual measurement converge and would continue to give precise measurements in upcoming timeframes.

## Question 5:
The Kalman filter effectively combines the noisy measurements to provide a more accurate estimation of the true state. Under the assumption of Gaussian noise distributions in both the model and measurements, the Kalman filter is the optimal linear estimator for the true state. It minimizes the mean squared error of the state estimate. But the Kalman filter assumes a linear system model. If the system dynamics are significantly non-linear, the filter's performance can degrade, also it depends on gaussian noise distribution.
Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) is used to overcome the linearity shortcoming of kalman filter by linearising a nonlinear system of models around a current state estimator. Although it solves for a non-linear system it comes with an approximation error while linearising a nonlinear system.

